German Chancellor Olaf Schultz is making
a two-day trip to the Middle East where
he's due to hold talks with the leaders
of Jordan and Israel his trip comes as
International efforts to get Aid into
Gaza are expanding Germany has joined an
emergency airlift dropping food over the
strip for the first time a new Maritime
Aid Corridor between Cypress and Gaza is
also taking shape but relief groups and
the people of Gaza say it's nowhere near
enough
the US Air Force parachuting Aid into
Gaza they're dropping food supplied by
Jordan to help hundreds of thousands of
people facing
starvation The Situation's awful we
can't eat or drink and Aid is very
scarce Israel has imposed a long running
blockade on Gaza and has been accused by
eight agencies of delaying the entry of
trucks
Israel says it is carrying out necessary
security measures to ensure no weapons
are snuck in and while trucks wait for
inspection the price of food in the
territory is
skyrocketing amid all the shortages many
can no longer afford to shop for
groceries everything's expensive in the
markets the prices are very high I've
been checking the market for an hour I
have 10 shekels and I can't buy anything
in recent days more donor countries have
turned to the air and sea to overcome
Israeli
restrictions a ship carrying 200 tons of
food reached Gaza and the first such
delivery made via a new Maritime Aid
Corridor and more are on the way but
Gins say the measures are only a
temporary fix
we keep waiting for Aid this is not a
solution whether by ship or by plane we
saw planes dropping Aid and people
fighting over it there are some children
who drowned in the sea trying to get the
aid a group of 25 leading human rights
organizations have also criticized the
air and sea deliveries they say a
permanent ceasefire and unhindered
access to Aid through land Crossings are
the only way to alleviate unfolding
humanitarian
crisis before the German Chancellor left
for the Middle East he repeated his call
for a swift ceasefire and he also
outlined the overarching agenda for his
journey let's have a
listen we have a difficult situation
it's necessary for Aid to reach Gaza on
a larger scale now that will be an issue
that I also have to talk about
we're also concerned about the further
progress of military
[Music]
developments in particular there is a
danger that a full-scale offensive in
Rafa will result in a great many
civilian casualties which must be
avoided at all
costs and following the German
Chancellor's trip to Jordan in Israel is
our correspondent Tanya Kramer who joins
us now from Jerusalem Tanya good to see
you so tell us a bit more about what
Chancellor Schultz is hoping to achieve
through these talks in Jordan and
Israel well I think you have to say this
is his second visit to the region since
uh October 7 and uh the war he came
shortly after October 7 to Israel and
showing and um uh his full support for
Israel also in its uh War efforts but
now of course we're in a different phase
of this war going into the six month
with 31,000 over 31,000 people killed in
Gaza according to the local Health
authorities there and the end warning of
hunger and starvation a humanitarian
crisis uh in Gaza so uh this is of
course also when we're hearing more of
the other world leaders also being more
critical of Israel's war conduct
including uh US President Joe Biden
Israel's closest Ally so of course it
will be watched what Chancellor Olaf
Schulz is saying here to his Israeli
counterparts one of the main concerns is
and we heard it there is are Israel's
preparations for a potential military
offensive in Rafa where over 1 million
Palestinians have sheltered while the
war is going on while there are also air
strikes in the area uh another concern
is the return of the remaining Israeli
hostages uh in Gaza uh we understand
that the chancellor will also meet some
relatives uh of those families and also
of course more humanitarian Aid that
needs to go into Gaza this is a demand
by many in the international uh
community and that is also why Germany
uh is now taking part in those Aid drops
uh and that is part of course of the
discussions in in Jordan This is the
first leg of his very very short DP he
arrived last night in Jordan and will
meet uh King abdalah uh during the
morning
hours yeah an you me these plans for a
military operation in Rafa the focus of
much International concern but as you
reported uh Israel's war cabinet
approved these plans and yet we are
still hearing at the same time that
there are preparations to resume
ceasefire talks on a possible hostage
deal with Hamas what's the latest you
can tell us about
this yeah there are many conflicting
reports here also in the Israeli media
we understand that Hamas had submitted
submitted its proposal uh on Thursday uh
last week uh then we had prime minister
Benjamin netan calling those demands by
Hamas unrealistic nevertheless uh the uh
cabinet there decided to send an Israeli
delegation to doar toq to continue those
talks and there reports now that this
delegation uh should be leaving anytime
soon it will be headed by uh the head of
the Mad David Bara uh there's also
another
cabinet meeting uh scheduled for some
time today to outline the uh Israeli
position so we understand that of course
this is going on uh uh um so the talks
have not completely broken down it would
be also the first time in weeks that an
Israeli delegation will take part in
those indirect uh talks now of course uh
this proposal was seen in in several
phases releasing first about 40 of the
hostages that are still in the women
elderly children also hostages that are
ill for in exchange for Palestinian
prisoners held in Israeli jails but I
mean the main sticking points were
always the demands by Hamas the full
withdrawal of Israeli forces also the
return of residents uh uh to Northern
Gaza as well as a full uh Seas ceasefire
so we have to wait and see there's a lot
of of course pressure also by the
Israeli public to come to such an
agreement but we have to wait and see
you know how this will unfold and to
understand how wide the gaps are or how
narrow the gaps are between the two
sides that was DW's Tanya Kramer in
Jerusalem Tanya thanks as always for
your reporting we appreciate
it